=== Page Description ===
The South Boston Community Technology Center (CTC) is a facility focused on educating the public in the creative use of contemporary computer technologies.
=== Project Description ===
The public library represents a tradition of community and individual based education and enrichment with the aim of producing a more intellectually rich and virtuous society. Today, the modern library faces the challenge of adapting to a world in which physical media is quickly being superseded by digital media. Information technology is now an integral part of our culture and economy. 
Current and future generations may never have the need for a traditional public library due to the widespread availability of technology. What then is the role of the modern library? Can we create a modern library typology that is capable of carrying forward the values of public education and enrichment, while adapting to a rapidly changing technological landscape?
To bridge the gap between the values of the traditional public library and current conditions, The South Boston Community Technology Center (CTC) will offer a variety of public services with the objective of enabling citizens to be technologically self-sufficient and adaptive. In other words, teaching youth to code, enhancing adults’ professional skills, and teaching older adults to more fully utilize digital technology. 
Services provided will include training that ranges from basic computing skills, to digital media production, and applied professional skills. These programs and resources will be available to the general public, but will especially be aimed at supplementing education for youth and under-served populations. The facilities at the South Boston CTC will include large open work and study spaces, private meeting and study rooms for groups, computer classrooms, computer labs, a small collection of physical media, and a public café.
The primary form of the design is an A configuration consisting of two functional bars spanned by mezzanine spaces open to atria. The A configuration of the building opens the south to receive sun and collect light. A double envelope facade acts as a thermal buffer and encourages natural ventilation. 
An operable, perforated metal shading system on the western and southern facades modulates solar loads and glare. The density of perforations blocks a controlled amount of light while simultaneously permitting views.