As far back as I can recall, there existed for me profoundly calming and invigorating effects surrounding certain artistic processes. As a child, I enjoyed forming a relationship with this phenomena by making line drawings. Gradients and shades were of secondary importance; the line itself held my fascination most vigorously. The fluid movement of drawing a proportionate and smooth curve within one movement is a very gratifying experience. The affinity for graceful lines has since continued to manifest itself in many of my projects.
	Convergences is a series of computer illustrations based upon satellite imagery obtained using the program Google Earth. The illustrations trace the paths of roads and the complex intersections that are created when many roads converge.  Stripped from their sprawling backgrounds, the roads leave behind a graceful skeleton, which diverges, crosses, and loops. I measure the beauty of a line by imagining the physical sensation that hand-drawing the same line would evoke. I measure the beauty of these images by examining the interplay between the different types of lines and the forms they create together.
	The grey lines are soft and in order to closely appreciate their detail, the viewer must be very close. This proximity echoes the relationship I have with drawing, of being focussed so acutely to the structure of single lines. Many of the lines formed by these roads are parallel and conform to a grid structure. Especially in densely populated areas where space is limited, many of the lines form a complex web which seems to form an impossible tangle. The roads are continuous, however, and there is a working harmony to these spaces in which flow is always restored at the edges of the image. We travel through these highway spaces frequently and their spaces have become banal and utilitarian. These images afford the viewer a position from which they can examine the forms created by roads. Their quiet, unassertive quality allows for rapt focus on the forms’ details.