As Albuquerque continues to urbanize there is an increasing need for high quality, affordable housing at a density which acknowledges the careful use and limited availability of land. The design of the San Mateo Row Houses attempts to mediate the conflict between urban density and a desire for both privacy and outdoor space through a series of spaces which fall along the spectrum of public to private. Interior courtyards offer access to outdoor space within a unit, serving as a semi-public space within the unit and as a completely private space within the context of the site. Each unit will have the opportunity for an enclosed outdoor space in the form of a high-walled yard which will also serve as a buffer from the neighboring highly-trafficked San Mateo. Terraces offer elevated outdoor access and either Eastern or Western views.

The design strives to reach a balance between economic methods of construction and a high quality of living space. The design calls for simple and common construction materials but is adaptable enough that a variety of materials can be employed depending on current market conditions. The floor plans are open and adaptable to change depending on the needs of program.

By responding to environmental factors, the design attempts to provide a comfortable and efficient living space. The units are angled so as to draw in light during winter months and avoid light during summer. A water-catch system shared between two units will be implemented so that rainwater can be harvested. The interior courtyard provides a well of light into the center of the units and can also serve as a central point of fresh air access, providing the potential to ventilate one or both ends of the unit. 

The consideration of both economic and environmental factors in the design strives to provide housing which is both affordable and comfortable. The density of the housing scheme seeks to maintain a careful balance between cultural context, a desire for open space, and the limited availability of land. Through the careful consideration of cultural, environmental, and economic factors, it is our hope that we can continue to urbanize while maintaining an economically and environmentally-feasible high standard of living.

